Old bones and save files should at least be syntactically correct this time,
but you should still throw them out if you don't want to be confronted with
monsters permanently masquerading as different monsters (since some of the
monsters' letters have changed).


Note that the posted shop fix was a stopgap patch, not an official patch, so
it should be reversed before applying these patches.  If you do not reverse 
it, probably nothing worse than a failure of one shk.c band will happen this
time.  In general, however, you will have to do considerable hand-patching if
you leave intermediate patches in.


The major bug fix in Patch 5 is moving the color definitions to color.h, thus
breaking the annoying dependency loop when bootstrapping NetHack.

Patch 5 contains Johnny Lee's provision of a port to the Macintosh.  The 
Macintosh files live in a new subdirectory, 'mac'.  We know that many of you
were waiting for a Mac port, and for you we are happy to have it.

Basic support for several new other compilers or machines (see README), but 
these probably need some more tweaking.

A major new feature in Patch 5 is timed-out eating, i.e., being able to be
interrupted while eating by monsters attack.  Mike Stephenson provided the 
basic structure for dealing with partially eaten food.  We believe that the
only remaining flaws in this code are occasional non-optimal messages which
are generated by it (we are working on correcting this).

Incorrect iron ball behavior and bugs in the iron ball code were 
systematically corrected by Kevin Darcy who communicated with us about it
and mailed us his patches.  (Yes, Kevin, as you can see, it went in, and 
with only one minor change.)  

There were other, smaller, patches which were mailed to us and which were
implemented.  To repeat:  we are very happy to receive bug-fixing patches
and code-enhancement patches.  But please do as Kevin did, namely, tell us
about it in advance.

Difficulties with dropping objects in shops, burning to death in hell, 
wielding amulets, pets eating corpses were fixed.  So were scores of other
small but annoying bugs.

MICROPORT_BUG was added to cater to compilers that don't like large 
structures.

