            MSDOS specific help file for NetHack 3.7
		  (Last Revision: December 4, 1999)

Copyright (c) NetHack PC Development Team 1993-1999.
NetHack may be freely distributed.  See license for details.

New players should be sure to read GuideBoo.txt which contains essential
information about playing NetHack.  It can be found in the same
directory as your NetHack executable.

The MSDOS port of NetHack supports some additional or enhanced commands
as well as some defaults.nh file options specific to configuration choices 
used during the building of PC NetHack.  Listed below are those commands
and defaults.nh file options.

Recognized MSDOS specific defaults.nh entries are outlined below.

Boolean Options:

        IBMgraphics             Use IBM extended characters for the dungeon
                                Default: [FALSE]
        BIOS                    Allow the use of IBM ROM BIOS calls
                                Default: [FALSE]
        rawio                   Allow the use of raw I/O (may only be set
                                on startup)
                                Default: [FALSE]
        preload_tiles           Preload tiles into RAM at start of game.
                                Faster, but uses more memory.
                                Default: [TRUE]

Color Options:

OPTIONS=!color

		Players will need this if they have a real, true, (old)
		monochrome adapter, and they are seeing underlined,
		and flashing, and reverse-video characters on the
		screen. Or they find that some things are missing from
		the display.  This means that the auto-detection
		for monochromes has failed.  The color support
		stuff is active in video.c, but may be (will have
		to be) overridden by adding an OPTIONS=nocolor to
		defaults.nh.

OPTIONS=VIDEO
		(defaults.nh only)

		ie: OPTIONS=video:autodetect

		Possible values are: AUTODETECT, DEFAULT, VGA, VESA

		AUTODETECT Checks for a supported hi-res video
                           adaptor, and if it detects one, NetHack 
                           will run in "TILE MODE." 

		DEFAULT	   NetHack will run in TTY mode.  This is
                           the same as not specifying OPTIONS=VIDEO
                           at all.

		VGA        Forces use of VGA specific video routines.
                           Any forcing of specific video routines has
                           potential to cause machine lock-ups if 
                           the specified video hardware is not present.	

		VESA       Forces use of VESA specific video routines.
                           Reverts to TTY mode if no VESA BIOS is found.

OPTIONS=VIDEOSHADES
		(defaults.nh only)
		Players may wish to add this option because one of their
		shades of gray is difficult to read on their video
		display hardware.  Allows a level of intensity to be
		assigned to the 3 possible shades of gray in NetHack,
		those being BLACK, GRAY, WHITE.  To each of those
		shades, the player may assign a DARK, NORMAL, or LIGHT value.
		Here is the default if not specified:

		ie. OPTIONS=VIDEOSHADES:dark-normal-light

		Anytime the same intensity value (DARK NORMAL LIGHT) is used
		for more than one shade of gray, it will not be possible
		to visually distinguish those two shades from each
		other.

		ie. OPTIONS=VIDEOSHADES:normal-normal-light

		This, while eliminating the dark shade normally used for
		displaying black items, means that the player won't be
		able to distinguish black items and creatures from gray
		items and creatures visually.

		Note also that the controversial gray schema used in
		pl 3.1.2 as the default, corresponded to:

		OPTIONS=VIDEOSHADES:normal-dark-normal

		This is NOT the default in pl 3.1.3 and above, so many people
		will probably not even need to use this option, and will find
		the default just fine. The maps are built using gray,
		and in pl 3.1.3, that is mapped to normal by default. In
		3.1.2, it was mapped to dark (as above).

OPTIONS=VIDEOCOLORS
		(defaults.nh only)
		This option is only provided because some people on
		r.g.r.n mentioned how they liked to modify the color
		values from the default ANSI.SYS behavior, and were
		"upset" to find out that they could no longer do so
		under 3.1.2.  The color map is as accurate as possible
		on standard PC video hardware as it stands, and any
		deviation from the default, will mean that people
		are mapping blue to green for example.  The option is
		available to provide as much flexibility as possible,
		but it is not encouraged to be used.

		One possible use might be for the dark blue in
		fountains.  On video hardware that has trouble
		displaying blacks, there may also be problems displaying
		the darker blue used in fountains.  If that is the case
		then the default map:

		OPTIONS=VIDEOCOLORS:4-2-6-1-5-3-12-10-14-9-13-11

		could be changed to the following to map blue to br.
		blue:

		OPTIONS=VIDEOCOLORS:4-2-6-9-5-3-12-10-14-9-13-11

		The mapping order for the options:

			red, green, brown, blue, magenta, cyan
			br.red, br.green, yellow, br.blue,
			br.magenta, br.cyan

		The PC hardware uses the following values:

		red(4), green(2), brown(6), blue(1), magenta(5),
		cyan(3), bright red(12), bright green(10), yellow(14),
		bright blue(9), bright magenta(13), bright cyan(11),
                normal white(7), bright white(15).


The following options are NOT currently recognized under the MSDOS
port of PC NetHack:

        LEVELS=                 Where to store/create per level
                                data files.
        SAVE=                   Where to save games.
        BONES=                  Where to store bones files.


MSDOS Additional/Enhanced Commands:

If you have opted to use the "graphical" or "tiled" option, (usually set via
OPTIONS=VIDEO:AUTODETECT ((see above)), then the following function keys are
active:

F3	cycle through the current position indicator, or halo.	Usually this
	halo highlights the player's tile, unless the game is asking you for
	an answer to a question that requires positional information, (ie,
	the discover command).
F4	toggle level overview mode on/off
F5	toggle tiled display on/off.  (Switches between tiled and traditional
	ASCII display.)

While playing NetHack under MSDOS you can press the ALT key in combination 
with another key to execute an extended command as an alternative method
to pressing a # key sequence:

Alt-2    twoweapon      - toggle two-weapon combat
Alt-a    adjust         - adjust inventory letters.
Alt-c    chat           - talk to someone or something.
Alt-d    dip            - dip an object into something.
Alt-e    enhance        - enhance your skill with a weapon.
Alt-f    force          - force a lock.
Alt-i    invoke         - invoke an object's powers.
Alt-j    jump           - jump to a location.
Alt-l    loot           - loot a box on the floor.
Alt-m    monster        - use a monster's special ability.
Alt-n    name           - name an item or type of object.
Alt-o    offer          - offer a sacrifice to the gods.
Alt-p    pray           - pray to the gods for help.
Alt-q    quit           - quit the game. (Same as #quit)
Alt-r    rub            - rub a lamp.
Alt-s    sit            - sit down.
Alt-t    turn           - turn undead.
Alt-u    untrap         - untrap something.
Alt-v    version        - list compile time options for this version of NetHack.
Alt-w    wipe           - wipe off your face.

If you are playing on NEC PC-9800, use the GRPH key instead of the ALT key.
